<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="concept-6503" domains="(topic concept)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                             (topic pr-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title ">Run a script on  remote nodes</title><shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc ">Specify the script you want to run and  which nodes to run it on.</shortdesc><prolog class="- topic/prolog "><author type="creator" translate="no" class="- topic/author ">Jean Bond &lt;jean@puppet.com&gt;</author></prolog><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p class="- topic/p ">Use the  <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">bolt script run</codeph> command to run  existing scripts that you use or to combine the commands that you regularly run  as part of sequence. When you run a script with <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/bolt" class="- topic/ph "/>,  the script is transferred into a temporary directory on the remote system, run on that system, and then deleted. </p><p class="- topic/p ">You can run scripts in any language as long as the appropriate interpreter is installed on the remote system. This includes  Bash, <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/powershell" class="- topic/ph "/>, or Python.

         </p><ul class="- topic/ul "><li class="- topic/li ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">
	 To run a script, specify the path to the script, and which nodes to run it on: <codeblock translate="no" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">bolt script run &lt;PATH/TO/SCRIPT&gt; --nodes &lt;NODE NAME&gt;,&lt;NODE NAME&gt;,&lt;NODE NAME&gt;</codeblock><codeblock translate="no" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">bolt script run ../myscript.sh --nodes web5.mydomain.edu, web6.mydomain.edu</codeblock></p>
         </li><li class="- topic/li ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">When executing on WinRM nodes, include the WinRM protocol in the nodes string:                <codeblock translate="no" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">bolt script run &lt;PATH/TO/SCRIPT&gt; --nodes winrm://&lt;NODE NAME&gt; --user &lt;USERNAME&gt; --password &lt;PASSWORD&gt;</codeblock></p>
         </li><li class="- topic/li ">
		  To pass arguments to a script, specify them after the command. If an argument contain spaces or special characters, you must quote it: <codeblock translate="no" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">bolt script run myscript.sh 'echo hello'</codeblock>Argument values are passed literally and are not interpolated by the shell on the remote host. If you run <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">bolt script run myscript.sh 'echo $HOME'</codeph>, then the script receives the argument <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">'echo $HOME'</codeph>, rather than any interpolated value.</li></ul><section class="- topic/section "><title class="- topic/title ">Requirements for scripts run on remote <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/nix" class="- topic/ph "/> systems</title><p class="- topic/p ">A script must include a shebang (<codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">#!</codeph>) line specifying the interpreter. For example, for a script written in Bash, provide the path to the Bash interpreter: <codeblock translate="no" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">#!/bin/bash
echo hello</codeblock></p></section><section class="- topic/section "><title class="- topic/title ">Requirements for scripts run on remote  <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/windows" class="- topic/ph "/>  systems</title><p class="- topic/p "><ph conkeyref="ProductNames/bolt" class="- topic/ph "/> supports the extensions <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">.ps1</codeph>, <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">.rb</codeph>, and <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">.pp</codeph>. To enable other file extensions, add them to your <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/bolt" class="- topic/ph "/> configuration file, as follows:
         <codeblock translate="no" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">winrm:
   extensions: [.py, .pl]</codeblock></p></section></conbody></concept>
