<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2" domains="(topic concept)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                             (topic pr-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)   " id="concept-2302" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title ">Defining plan parameters</title><shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc ">You can specify parameters in your plan.</shortdesc><prolog class="- topic/prolog "><author translate="no" type="creator" class="- topic/author ">Jean Bond &lt;jean@puppet.com&gt;</author></prolog><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p class="- topic/p ">Specify each parameter in your plan with its data type. For example, you might want parameters to specify which nodes to run different parts of your plan on. </p><p class="- topic/p ">The following example shows node parameters specified as data type <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">TargetSpec</codeph>. This allows this parameter to be passed as a single URL, comma-separated URL list, Target data type or Array of either. For more information about these data types, see the common data types table in the related metadata type topic.</p><p class="- topic/p ">This allows the user to pass, for each parameter, either a node name or a URI that describes the protocol to use, the hostname, username and password.</p><p class="- topic/p ">The plan then calls the <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">run_task</codeph> function, specifying which nodes the tasks should be run on.</p><codeblock translate="no" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">plan mymodule::my_plan(
  String[1] $load_balancer,
  TargetSpec  $frontends,
  TargetSpec  $backends,
) {

  # process frontends
  run_task('mymodule::lb_remove', $load_balancer, frontends =&gt; $frontends)
  run_task('mymodule::update_frontend_app', $frontends, version =&gt; '1.2.3')
  run_task('mymodule::lb_add', $load_balancer, frontends =&gt; $frontends)
}</codeblock><p class="- topic/p ">To execute this plan from the command line, pass the parameters as <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">parameter=value</codeph>. The <codeph translate="no" class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">Targetspec</codeph> accepts either an array as json or a comma separated string of target names.</p><codeblock translate="no" xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock ">bolt plan run mymodule::myplan --modulepath ./PATH/TO/MODULES load_balancer=lb.myorg.com frontends='["kermit.myorg.com","gonzo.myorg.com"]' backends=waldorf.myorg.com,statler.myorg.com
</codeblock></conbody></concept>
